# CodeBook
## Data
The data were collected from experiments with a group of 30 volunteers (aged 19-48 years) performing six activities (WALKING, WALKING UPSTAIRS, WALKING DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz were collected. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 
The data included two types of sensor signals--accelerometer and gyroscope. The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separatly filtered into body acceleration and gravity. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain.  

##Variables
The original data set contains measurements of various features, listed below. 
###Features:
1.  tBodyAcc-XYZ
2.  tGravityAcc-XYZ
3.  tBodyAccJerk-XYZ
4.  tBodyGyro-XYZ
5.  tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ
6.  tBodyAccMag
7.  tGravityAccMag
8.  tBodyAccJerkMag
9.  tBodyGyroMag
10.  tBodyGyroJerkMag
11.  fBodyAcc-XYZ
12.  fBodyAccJerk-XYZ
13.  fBodyGyro-XYZ
14.  fBodyAccMag
15.  fBodyAccJerkMag
16.  fBodyGyroMag
17.  fBodyGyroJerkMag

###Coding of the variables:
1.  prefix t-: time domain signal
2.  prefix f-: frequency domain signal
3.  Body: Body acceleration
4.  Gravity: Body gravity
5.  Acc: data collected using accelerometer 
6.  Gyro: data collected using gyroscope 
7.  Jerk: Jerk signal
8.  Mag: the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals calculated using the Euclidean norm
9.  X,Y,Z: axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions
  
##Transformations of the original dataset (executed by run_analysis.R)
While a couple of measurements were available in the raw dataset, only the mean value and standard deviation were used in the dataset generated by run_analysis.R. The data were grouped by subject and activity. Then the average of the variables for each group were calculated and the variables were renamed into a easier to read format.
The generated tidy dataset contains the average of all windowed mean and standard deviation of all measurements for each subject and one activity in each row.

###Variables in the generated new dataset 
1. Subject_id: Identifiers of participants
2. Activity: The activity the measurement associated with ("WALKING", "WALKING_UPSTAIRS", "WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS", "SITTING", "STANDING", "LAYING")
3. tBodyAcc_mean_X: mean body acceleration from accelerometer on the X-axis.               
4. tBodyAcc_mean_Y: mean body acceleration from accelerometer on the Y-axis.              
5. tBodyAcc_mean_Z: mean body acceleration from accelerometer on the Z-axis. 
6. tBodyAcc_std_X: std of body acceleration from accelerometer on the X-axis.
7. tBodyAcc_std_Y: std of body acceleration from accelerometer on the Y-axis.
8. tBodyAcc_std_Z: std body acceleration from accelerometer on the Z-axis.                
9. tGravityAcc_mean_X: mean gravitational acceleration from accelerometer on the X-axis.
10. tGravityAcc_mean_Y: mean gravitational acceleration from accelerometer on the Y-axis.            
11. tGravityAcc_mean_Z: mean gravitational acceleration from accelerometer on the Z-axis.           
12. tGravityAcc_std_X: std of gravitational acceleration from accelerometer on the X-axis.
13. tGravityAcc_std_Y: std of gravitational acceleration from accelerometer on the Y-axis.
14. tGravityAcc_std_Z: std of gravitational acceleration from accelerometer on the Z-axis.
15. tBodyAccJerk_mean_X: mean body acceleration Jerk signal from accelerometer on the X-axis.
16. tBodyAccJerk_mean_Y: mean body acceleration Jerk signal from accelerometer on the Y-axis.
17. tBodyAccJerk_mean_Z: mean body acceleration Jerk signal from accelerometer on the Z-axis.
18. tBodyAccJerk_std_X: std of body acceleration Jerk signal from accelerometer on the X-axis.
19. tBodyAccJerk_std_Y: std of body acceleration Jerk signal from accelerometer on the Y-axis.
20. tBodyAccJerk_std_Z: std of body acceleration Jerk signal from accelerometer on the Z-axis.
21. tBodyGyro_mean_X: mean body angular velocity from the gyroscope on the X-axis.
22. tBodyGyro_mean_Y: mean body angular velocity from the gyroscope on the Y-axis.
23. tBodyGyro_mean_Z: mean body angular velocity from the gyroscope on the Z-axis.
24. tBodyGyro_std_X: std of body angular velocity from the gyroscope on the X-axis.
25. tBodyGyro_std_Y: std of body angular velocity from the gyroscope on the Y-axis.
26. tBodyGyro_std_Z: std of body angular velocity from the gyroscope on the Z-axis.
27. tBodyGyroJerk_mean_X: mean body angular velocity Jerk signal from the gyroscope on the X-axis.
28. tBodyGyroJerk_mean_Y: mean body angular velocity Jerk signal from the gyroscope on the Y-axis.
29. tBodyGyroJerk_mean_Z: mean body angular velocity Jerk signal from the gyroscope on the Z-axis.
30. tBodyGyroJerk_std_X: std of body angular velocity Jerk signal from the gyroscope on the X-axis.
31. tBodyGyroJerk_std_Y: std of body angular velocity Jerk signal from the gyroscope on the Y-axis.
32. tBodyGyroJerk_std_Z: std of body angular velocity Jerk signal from the gyroscope on the Z-axis.
33. tBodyAccMag_mean: mean magnitude of body acceleration from accelerometer.
34. tBodyAccMag_std: std of magnitude of body acceleration from accelerometer.
35. tGravityAccMag_mean: mean magnitude of gravitational acceleration from accelerometer.
36. tGravityAccMag_std: std of magnitude of gravitational acceleration from accelerometer.
37. tBodyAccJerkMag_mean: mean magnitude of body acceleration Jerk signal from accelerometer.        
38. tBodyAccJerkMag_std: std of magnitude of body acceleration Jerk signal from accelerometer. 
39. tBodyGyroMag_mean: mean magnitude of body angular velocity from the gyroscope.
40. tBodyGyroMag_std: std of magnitude of body angular velocity from the gyroscope.
41. tBodyGyroJerkMag_mean: mean magnitude of body angular velocity Jerk signal from the gyroscope.
42. tBodyGyroJerkMag_std: std of magnitude of body angular velocity Jerk signal from the gyroscope.
43. fBodyAcc_mean_X: mean FFT of body acceleration from accelerometer on the X-axis.
44. fBodyAcc_mean_Y: mean FFT of body acceleration from accelerometer on the Y-axis.
45. fBodyAcc_mean_Z: mean FFT of body acceleration from accelerometer on the Z-axis.              46. fBodyAcc_std_X: std of FFT of body acceleration from accelerometer on the X-axis.
47. fBodyAcc_std_Y: std of FFT of body acceleration from accelerometer on the Y-axis.         
48. fBodyAcc_std_Z: std of FFT of body acceleration from accelerometer on the Z-axis.
49. fBodyAccJerk_mean_X: mean FFT body acceleration Jerk signal from accelerometer on the X-axis.
50. fBodyAccJerk_mean_Y: mean FFT body acceleration Jerk signal from accelerometer on the Y-axis.     
51. fBodyAccJerk_mean_Z: mean FFT body acceleration Jerk signal from accelerometer on the Z-axis.
52. fBodyAccJerk_std_X: std of FFT body acceleration Jerk signal from accelerometer on the X-axis.
53. fBodyAccJerk_std_Y: std of FFT body acceleration Jerk signal from accelerometer on the Y-axis.     
54. fBodyAccJerk_std_Z: std of FFT body acceleration Jerk signal from accelerometer on the Z-axis.
55. fBodyGyro_mean_X: mean FFT of body angular velocity from the gyroscope on the X-axis.
56. fBodyGyro_mean_Y: mean FFT of body angular velocity from the gyroscope on the Y-axis.       
57. fBodyGyro_mean_Z: mean FFT of body angular velocity from the gyroscope on the Z-axis.
58. fBodyGyro_std_X: std of FFT of body angular velocity from the gyroscope on the X-axis.
59. fBodyGyro_std_Y: std of FFT of body angular velocity from the gyroscope on the Y-axis.          
60. fBodyGyro_std_Z: std of FFT of body angular velocity from the gyroscope on the Z-axis
61. fBodyAccMag_mean: mean FFT of body acceleration magnitude from accelerometer.
62. fBodyAccMag_std: std of FFT of body acceleration magnitude from accelerometer.           
63. fBodyBodyAccJerkMag_mean: mean FFT of magnitude of body acceleration Jerk signal from accelerometer.
64. fBodyBodyAccJerkMag_std: std of FFT of magnitude of body acceleration Jerk signal from accelerometer.
65. fBodyBodyGyroMag_mean: mean FFT of magnitude of body angular velocity from the gyroscope.   
66. fBodyBodyGyroMag_std: std of FFT of magnitude of body angular velocity from the gyroscope. 
67. fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag_mean: mean FFT of magnitude of body angular velocity Jerk signal from the gyroscope.
68. fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag_std: std of FFT of magnitude of body angular velocity Jerk signal from the gyroscope.